# Giving - Project Blog Post

## Problem

![](media/32551e913ebcaef6280611e57b2e8a93.png)

**Why do(n’t) people donate?**

According to the
<https://kbfus.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/10/2020-Global-Trends-in-Giving-Report.pdf>[**2020
Global Trends in Giving
Report**](https://kbfus.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/10/2020-Global-Trends-in-Giving-Report.pdf),
1.817 non-donors responded that they had not given to charity within the last 12
months. Here are six reasons why:

**1)** 42% responded that they do not give to charity because they do not have
the financial resources

**2)** 22% volunteer their time in lieu of making donations

**3)** 18% donate goods and/or services in lieu of making a donation

**4)** 9% don’t trust organizations to spend their money well

**5)** 7% prefer to spend their money on their family and friends

**6)** 2% don’t believe that organizations make a positive difference

Furthermore, the social media feud between Elon Musk and David Beasley of the UN
World Food Programme last year has sparked heated debates over the aid sector.
Unlike our non-donors in the report above, Elon Musk surely has the financial
resources, but like those non-donors, he doesn’t seem to believe that charitable
organizations can make a positive difference and that donation will help.

(Responding to Musk’s challenge, the UN WFP has produced a detailed plan to
combat global hunger. This proposal stated that \$6.6 billion could help 42
million vulnerable people survive 2022 and is available
<https://www.wfp.org/stories/wfps-plan-support-42-million-people-brink-famine>[here](https://www.wfp.org/stories/wfps-plan-support-42-million-people-brink-famine).)

Plenty of world issues that NGOs and NPOs trying to combat are structural
problems, which will require structural change and approach from many sides. A
wire transfer of \$6 billion won’t be the sole solution for all issues. However,
funding would be an immense help for nonprofits to keep on helping and tackling
important issues in society.

What about the people that don’t have a net worth of \$296.2 billion? Looking
back at the report above, almost 50% of non-donors responded that they do not
give to charity because they do not have the financial resources. This, of
course, is a fair concern, but we, at Giving, believe that when people come
together and provide help, no matter how small, it can make a big impact.
Therefore, we create Giving app with the hope that this platform can help
convert non-donors into donors and help donors to donate to charitable
organizations in an easy and efficient way.

## Background

The idea of Giving came from its project lead’s experience. Back when she was
struggling with her life, people around her helped her to get back on her feet.
Once she could stand on her own, she’d like to return the kindness to the
community. Furthermore, she is frustrated with the world’s current condition,
esp. humanitarian and climate crises, and she would like to be part of the
solutions, but unfortunately, because of time constraints, she cannot volunteer
so often in order to combat these issues directly, so she resorted to donating
to several Non-Profit Organizations (NGO) and charitable organizations. While
doing this, she discovered that donating to organizations is such a complex
process: she needs to check NGOs to see whether it’s trusted or not, and then
picks 1 or 2 organizations that will be the focus of her donation. She proceeds
to read more about them, then opens their website to see how to help. She must
repeat this process every time she wants to support another organization. Thus,
she easily loses track of her donation and the further update from the donation.
Therefore, it would be great to have an app or website that simplifies these
steps and make it easy for people to donate, check their spending, and track the
usage of their donation. Most apps or websites offer a platform to donate based
on specific events/projects and do not focus on the organization itself. Google
launched an app that provides the same purpose in 2013 and shut it down in 2020
due to a decline in use. So this idea went back into the shelves until in
September, TechLabs Berlin opened their Winter Semester tech program and it
seemed like a possibility to bring the Giving idea to life!

## 

## The Beginning

TechLabs, a community-based edutech nonprofit, offers a free coding bootcamp in
the area of Data Science, AI, Web Development, and UX. This bootcamp, called the
Digital Shaper program, consists of 2 major parts: the academic phase, where the
participants (‘Techies’) immerse themselves in intense online learning for 8
weeks, and then the project phase, where these Techies will work on a real
project within groups, accompanied by mentors.

When the Project Phase started, Beppy from UX track who has the idea of Giving,
pitched her idea during the Project Pitch Submission and Session. She explained
her vision for Giving and what she had envisioned for the app. During the
Project Kick-Off, 6 Techies (all women!) and 1 mentor joined her effort in
building Giving.

The whole team of Giving, besides the mentor, joined TechLabs while having
various backgrounds with little experience in tech. Now armed with their (still
limited!) knowledge from the Academic Phase, the team prepared themselves into
building Giving. What came in the first place after introducing themselves, of
course, to dive into a discussion on how to create the app. As the concept has
been initially formed and developed by Beppy, the further development wasn’t too
difficult to shape. The first jour fix was then used to map out the initial plan
and tools needed. The group agreed to use Notion for documentation purposes and
Miro board as a collaboration tool. They were divided per track to carry out
their track-specific tasks. The main problem of Giving is being put on the
table: How can we make donations to charities simpler, easier, and most
importantly, more impactful?

Based on the research, the team then discussed deeper about the problem and
began their ideation process. Several solutions were being suggested per issue
and these solutions became the initial ideas for Giving’s features.

![](media/7d7102b619f3aaa6c084ff27b687736c.png)

After the initial discussion, we decided that these solutions, naturally,
couldn’t all be featured in the app. Therefore, we had a priority/feasibility
study to decide which proposed solutions should become features in Giving?

![](media/8b04ca888fa6c6952db15abcb7999d5b.png)

So from this, we can draw the conclusion that the Giving app aims to get people
to donate with just several clicks to different organizations while getting
complete information about the organization itself. About one of the biggest
doubts of donors: “How do we know that the organization is legit?”, the Giving
team has decided to populate the app with only German nonprofits listed in DZI
and international nonprofits listed in the Charity Navigator.

DZI, or the German Central Institute for Social Issues (DZI) certifies donation
organizations, where every year, the activities of these organizations are
monitored and recorded. In this way, precise information on the revenue,
expenditure, and wealth situation of the organizations can be consulted in the
annual statistics. Thus, the DZI donation seal is the most respected seal of
approval for German charitable organizations. It certifies that an organization
handles the donations it receives responsibly and appropriately.

Charity Navigator is the world’s largest and most trusted nonprofit evaluator.
This organisation evaluates hundreds of thousands of charitable organisations
based in the United States, providing insights into a nonprofit’s financial
stability, adherence to best practises for both accountability and transparency,
and results reporting. Accessed more than 11 million times annually, donors can
give with confidence knowing the organisations that are highly rated on Charity
Navigator efficiently steward donations and are accountable and transparent.

By only providing our users with organisations vetted by DZI and Charity
Navigator, we then can assure Giving’s users that all the organisations are
trustable, transparent, and committed to the cause. And once we have a clearer
view of how Giving should be, we quickly divide tasks between tracks.

![](media/aa5bf5c6190f3fd84e47d4b3e42c73c5.png)

### User Experience

Our first Jour Fixe contained a plan on how to start the project as quickly as
possible. Understanding the problem guided us to define two groups of users:
“donors” and “non-donors”. We created features based on their needs and goals
and by providing enough information, the flexibility of payment, and a clear
user flow, we meant donating enjoyable for both user groups. Also, we discussed
what should be the main pages that our web developers build first. As Giving’s
goal is to provide a platform for donating, our priorities are:

\- Intro page

\- Sign up page

\- Payment setup page

\- Login page

\- Explore page -\> where user can see the organisations

\- Filter -\> to filter organisations based on category, name, and location

\- Organisation page à contains picture, description, contact detail, and CTA
donate button

\- Donation page

\- Thank you page

As Beppy had an idea already on how the app should look like, Zahra and she
quickly brainstormed for the page design. Afterward, Zahra then created an
initial low-fidelity wireframe draft in Figma while Beppy created the Giving
logo, table of features, and the user flow.

![](media/b77b949c32198a631f367da0841dc917.png)

![](media/a5bc5baff4035e1fd03236d908f00002.png)

![](media/71e7b696bddc064632df778b35e064d1.png)![](media/5d72014c2dc1320158a3d1625fd704f1.png)

![](media/5424e0e73a1ccbf647a387ac19b568ec.png)![](media/9585a53390e6fb9f85feb72faea852e7.png)

![](media/cb45c2637f25fe82470ce119bd9ce8b3.png)

(Clearer view of our user flow is available in our figma:
<https://www.figma.com/file/lQEbxUbCAkANF8NoClpURx/Giving.app?node-id=303%3A242><https://www.figma.com/file/lQEbxUbCAkANF8NoClpURx/Giving.app?node-id=303%3A242>)

Giving logo was created based on a simple idea of an icon, merging ‘heart’ and
‘two hands holding/shaking’. Orange was chosen as the main color as it’s an
active color, hoping to invoke warmth and emotion. The wordmark aims to be a
‘call of an appeal’ to Giving user. After pitching it to the group, nobody
opposed the design and it became the ‘official’ Giving logo.

Once the initial low-fidelity was done, the UX team again quickly discuss how to
iterate the design to fit the features mapped/the user flow, which then became
the basis wireframe. This wireframe was then presented to the whole group and
offered to the web developers so they could start working.

![](media/84a0defae32b1c8b228e0afbe8dee19b.png)

What is design if it’s not a non-stop iteration process?

While waiting for the web-developers to build the pages, the UX team kept on
discussing how they can make Giving design more user friendly and eliminate any
pain points.

### ![](media/163cc1c1f9461e21201a544867a95867.png)

### ![](media/40aa86c4afc828828013ebb76a86a2d7.png)

### ![](media/c1b74664700d513278388a2cbe2e5830.png)

### ![](media/8ffd31a97fbb4a76742dc4adf052fffd.png)

### 

Besides any small iterations, one of the biggest changes that we did is to move
the Tabs Bar from the top side to the bottom side. The purpose of this is so
users can understand the main functionality of Giving and to enable navigation
(quickly switch between sections in the app).

![](media/cb62a3797ef80d6261a60920e89c8c47.png)![](media/c7d8791bfebb1c6e63789fdb66a4b671.png)

### 

Here’s our updated low-fidelity wireframe:

### ![](media/57f0e910cec02c4be2ccbdb39cae01ab.png)

We also documented this iteration in our Miro Board so our developers can see
what have we changed from the base design.

![](media/3e3deb8b734f8ce873dad3ecdf1ed9eb.png)

![](media/0c2d314d9c926ef6aa5d0725a57757d5.png)

![](media/283278c5b8b2edc2ca7a3d3cd833bb01.png)

After we have communicated this with the developers and the whole team, we
started the preparation for high-fidelity wireframe. Zahra quickly built a
component library that later will be used for the high-fidelity wireframe
meanwhile Beppy created Branding Guidelines.

![](media/02d91ce2939a1f7a00d0aa75909d4bae.png)

![](media/886b8db4ee40c36a0e186a29b3bf590b.png)

![](media/187ca0889b0105df492213cb395b6593.png)

![](media/5a010835a78fe2501c37d58b3715559e.png)

![](media/1bf1e512feb990ccedd60855dc4e58a0.png)![](media/71f3d34dce9ffb87550d6e3b69dc802d.png)

![](media/c2350500bd6ef903cabbcfbeb8cc9065.png)![](media/1c359d1c3e9d6654d6f7c7d883062459.png)

### ![](media/c3e5a28b24ea1292270dd13e95db2fcb.png)![](media/44edbfdd9cc7413ae8d13d6d7f7b2983.png)

### ![](media/b9e99477aec449bfce9fd716d931879c.png)![](media/5a51b589d0a907787a3f9a1ccb48ce34.png)

### 

### ![](media/af017d0654de49a8929934362ccef490.png)

Once we have created the components and guidelines needed to build the
high-fidelity wireframe, we started the process instantly. Using the data that
the Data Science team have compiled as the dataset for the app, Zahra created
the high-fidelity wireframe for all the main pages, meanwhile Beppy created the
high-fidelity wireframe for the additional pages.

![](media/f2ae8d67f1a1ed5c86ae1a082dd7a725.png)

*(image: intro page)*

![](media/41c8d82b3ce64c7edd0c2f29a5ed6602.png)

*(image: sign-up page)*

### ![](media/ee0263ee458117e4df3cb9c8bc3997dc.png)

(image: login page)

### ![](media/5e0cc745b7ee3f19c27b49970c566ceb.png)

(image: payment setup page)

### ![](media/5de87fe64e085c41f9468cc6481634fe.png)

*(image: explore page + filtering system + result after flitering)*

![](media/e1139320ef224d9c66a5f50fbbeab52e.png)

*(image: organization page)*

![](media/7034cf13faab0693426a0b662041c616.png)

*(image: one-off donation payment page)*

![](media/7815d796131c58f1da18d1ba104f0625.png)

*(image: recurring donation payment page)*

![](media/3d1e438004078352c0c817de1fe32dc8.png)

*(image: thank you page)*

### 

Additional Pages:

### ![](media/b152c8b4277e7dfa07682965d96b5603.png)

(image: forgot password page)

### ![](media/54018c95d78415303e5f8c259c291e9d.png)

(image: events page)

### ![](media/bbb89e4449aa84fa0823034c4c74a06e.png)

(image: feed page)

### ![](media/8f5867c3bf02d1c80b61b60e67937079.png)

(image: hamburger menu + profile page)

### ![](media/b2a7be868d418f7c124041115efe883c.png)

(image: portfolio + current donation + edit/remove donation page)

### ![](media/7047c2bcd59a6cd061d0ccac008da507.png)

*(image: past donation page)*

![](media/10ff14f4aafc76337434b7c7ffd38c26.png)

*(image: payment method page)*

![](media/7cac90cadb55614a8bcfe8ade156a105.png)

*(image: FAQ page)*

![](media/2e24663de8067216a698c9df2999e5c4.png)

*(image: about us page)*

**![](media/5473141701b1506cf98b19917eb7623f.png)![](media/c2c22b1049bb59c871651755b2c2e85c.png)**

*(image: privacy policy + contact us page)*

Once we have communicated the high-fidelity wireframe with the web developers,
now it’s time for us to build the mock-up to see what the app would look like on
the user’s devices. We used iPhone 13 pro as our basis for the mock-up. While
finishing the mock-up, our web developers shared the news that there’s a
possibility that they won’t be able to finish the back-end system on time, thus
most likely making us unable to present a live demo during the Final
Presentation session. Therefore, Zahra created a prototype video that will show
how a user may interact with the Giving app. View the prototype video
<https://www.figma.com/proto/lQEbxUbCAkANF8NoClpURx/Giving.app?page-id=167%3A134&node-id=167%3A135&viewport=307%2C48%2C0.03&scaling=scale-down&starting-point-node-id=167%3A135&show-proto-sidebar=1>[here](https://www.figma.com/proto/lQEbxUbCAkANF8NoClpURx/Giving.app?page-id=167%3A134&node-id=167%3A135&viewport=307%2C48%2C0.03&scaling=scale-down&starting-point-node-id=167%3A135&show-proto-sidebar=1).

We think it’s safe to say that the UX team is managed to complete the tasks
successfully. Zahra is a seasoned UX designer and she is such a great asset to
the team by quickly designing all the initial main pages, the updated version,
the final low-fidelity, and high-fidelity wireframe, as well as building the
components and making the prototype videos. We understand that our part was
quite ‘easy’ compared to the other tasks and sometimes in the Jour Fixe we felt
bad for the other tracks because they were having difficulties and that there’s
a little we can do to help. Therefore, to compensate for this gap, we UX team
decided to build the whole design for the app even though our Developers will
only do the main pages to show our commitment to Giving. Sure, there are plenty
of spaces for upgrades! Zahra wants to expand the feature by adding a special
section ‘Company’ to serve the purpose of creating a collaboration platform for
the company and Giving for corporation donation, meanwhile, Beppy wants to see
whether it’s possible to add a Volunteer section in the app where its user can
see the possibility of volunteering their time for organizations. All legalities
aside, we hope Giving can fill its purpose to be a platform where donors and
non-donors can provide their help to nonprofits and create a positive impact in
society.

### 

### Web Development![](media/a83c1654c9c870cb2b95fe2c377de499.png)

First we discussed how we would structure the Web Development. Our mentor
suggested a folderstructure in React, where one folder contains all components
and one folder all pages. We also decided to create CSS-files for every page and
every component. The first version of our folder structure can be seen on the
picture:

We looked at the wireframes from UX and tried to decompose the pages into small
components. One example can be seen here:

![](media/90372378c25ce94adaceda4e8af39003.png)

Then the Front End split up the components and pages and started working. For
some components, we worked with props. E.g. the button-component can easily be
adjusted for color, backgroundcolor and width. The first components were the
Logo and one button:

![](media/4d3daa90181ccfd109ddee44b3b07e56.png)

Shortly after that, the components could be integrated in the pages, like here:

![](media/62e5fdb33c671ac275987308f56eaf66.png)![](media/f0969718ceeea3159b3e8688bc7f78b5.png)![](media/2921f19729bc12ce7d5408e17dacd5ae.png)![](media/979e7226afc29b9813a6fd491f1d102f.png)

The next step was to install React Router, so that the pages can be linked with
each other and therefore are all visible when coding. Unfortunately the
installation and setup as suggested in the React Udemy course did not work. Then
we found out, that there was an update on React and all the Route-links have to
be additionally wrapped in \<Routes\>\</Routes\> .

We also installed React Icons, which was very helpful.

After UX finished the high fidelity wireframes, Wed Development started to
implement the changes. Unfortunately, there was not enough time to finish all
the pages and components.

Here are pictures of some pages:

![](media/ddd291a9ec75666e009f1a1b33cc1978.png)![](media/147942c5bbef5320b4e19653cecd721f.png)![](media/42a2acad1c627a5a105fcafcf230bad7.png)

Our Biggest challenge was the Data-integration, creating Pop-up-fields on the
page and setting up so many pages.

Here is a list of things we would have liked to do, but time was too short:

· Finish the high fidelity wireframes

· create a fake account for login with React Router

· work with useState, e.g. with updating the donation amount

· integrate different pages on one page, e.g. the carousel component on the
intropage or open the hamburger menu

## 

### Data Science ![](media/6628a3f7eccd94aefb4c4004dcac972e.png)

#### Get Data Set

There were two sources to get Data from: Charity Navigator (US) and DZI
(Deutsches Zentralinstitut für soziale Fragen, German). Charity Navigator
offered an API to get data, for DZI we needed to scrap the data (thanks to Max
and Zubin). The files we got from the API were quite hard to format to a clean
data frame so in the end we found a clean data frame in
Kaggle.![](media/b8e46bba0ff2bceb49a4a0f0c8fe70b2.png)

## ![](media/df831a30fc22fff9ae35606a7bb1dadb.png)

## 

## ![](media/e0e64199f96c0e8857d8ced83f23177f.png)

## 

## 

## 

## 

## 

#### Cleaning Data

Once we had the data in a readable format for us (json and csv) first we
imported the data in Jupyter notebook, imported Pandas and NumPy libraries and
proceed to analyze the type of data and information we wanted to work with and
the columns we consider relevant for the project. Based on it we created a data
frame and continue to eliminate the columns we would not work for our project.
We reorder the columns by the importance of the necessary data for the project
and rename some columns, then we check there was no duplicate, or incomplete
data within our data frame. It was also necessary to check and clean empty rows
in the file, in some cases the rows were not with the complete information for
in which case we decided to eliminate the whole row.

![](media/7da91259fa954a9efc8ce6449450fcef.png)

#### Charity Navigator

First we decided to work with Charity Navigator API
(<https://www.charitynavigator.org/index.cfm?bay=content.view&cpid=1397>) but in
order to get the data we had to pay subscription to the API so then we try
scrapp some data but it was still difficult in our level. The API offers some
free data as a try but we notice that the free data offered was not enough for
what we were looking for the project. We followed mentor advise and we found a
satisfactory data base in Kaggle.![](media/75b038d622f277e18379b45e33d032f3.png)

### 

#### DZI Data

The data we got scrapped from the DZI webpage
(<https://www.dzi.de/organisation/?keyword=&cat=5>) were several json files for
each organisation. To create a dataframe with all organisations we used the code
in the file Combine_Json_files. The challenge was to go through every file of
the 230 organisations. Zubin helped us in the end to create the data frame. The
data frame itself needed some further cleaning as nearly all columns were object
types, even those containing
numbers.![](media/83e4a628f5b2363c0bf16313ce41863c.png)

![](media/16e1442450a6f298508f3bec125cee3b.png)

## 

#### Explorative Data Analytics

We used pandas and numpy to make some statistical analysis of the data set from
Charity Navigator and DZI. We initially explore the data by creating a data
frame and then visualising the type of data we had, then the number of rows and
columns and the content of every column. We also play with some code in order to
just make use of what we learned in the previous phase. We use conditional
functions in order to get the highest scores from charities in different
categories. (See process in "Giving Data Cleaning and Analysis.ipyn" file) We
investigated and created boxplots for different categories like scores by
categories. (see results and interpretations in Jupyter Notebook) We decided to
extract top ten lists that could be useful for the app like Top ten list for
each category and in total so that the user can find the best scored charities
directly.

![](media/3629133fe34127dfe0d5d944e0a26af7.png)

![](media/06bd4d3f6b883257eb4e783de7d169c2.png)

#### Results Charity Navigator Data

You can find all results of the Data Analytics in
data_analytics_charities.ipynb.

The data set contains 8408 charities. The mean accountability score of all
charities is 90.72 (of 100), the mean financial score is 85.7. To discover the
range of the scores by Charity categories we created boxplots by charities
showing that the outliers with the lowest score can be found in the categories
Health, Human Services, Human and Civil Rights and Religion. Also the finding
efficiency plays a high role in the scoring of the charities. Funding efficiency
describes how much money is spent to raise 1 \$. On average the charities spend
0.10 \$ to raise 1 \$.

Mean total revenue of all charities are 15,827,234.05 \$. Most charities range
between 0 and 10,000,000 \$ with 4 big outliers with the highest financial
resources including American Red Cross, Feeding America, Americarers and Dana
Faber Cancer Institute.

In addition we also applied some analytics for text data for the description
resulting that most used words in descriptions being community, people, mission,
children, families and education which indicates the focus of the different
charities.

#### Results DZI![](media/645b657ef29ac41eee16047cc9b388ef.png)

You can find all results of the Data Analytics in DZI_data_analyics.ipynb.

For DZI there was way less numerical data to analyse or it needed further
cleaning. The data set contains 230 charities. There is no scoring system like
for the US charities in place as all charities received the DZI certificate.

The mean total revenues of all charities is 2,747,756,833.73. This includes one
big outlier with highest financial resources which is Johanniter Unfallhilfe.

With further text analytics of the string data we also could extract the main
focus of the charities (children, education and development) and in which
countries they’re active (Germany, India, Kenia as top 3).

## 

## 

## 

#### Machine Learning Recommendation System

We had different ideas how to make use of Machine Learning to work with the data

-   To recommend matching charities based on users' past giving behavior
    (problem: no user data available)

-   To train model with input of descriptions to predict category or score
    (might be useful to categorize new charities for app)

-   Content based recommendation: Recommend charities based on a text by the
    user describing his/her preferences about donating (e.g. Donate for animals
    in )

We decided to go for the last two options so the requirement was to build a
machine learning algorithm and prepare the text data for that. We decided to use
Spacy as it's a library which provides a lot of models for NLP (natural language
processing) and comes with pre trained models

#### Predict Category

You find the code to predict the categories from descriptions of the charities
in the file "ML_Predict_Category.py". The steps are the following:

-   Clean text data and tokenize it with spacy's tokenizer

-   remove stopwords

-   Lemmatization

-   Vectorization Feature Engineering (TF-IDF)

    -   Use Bag of Words to represent text numerically

    -   Apply Term Frequency-Inverse Document Frequency to custom tokenizer

-   Splitting Data to Training and Test Set with scikit learn

-   Building Model with Logistic Regression classifier object

-   Evaluating the model

#### Recommendation Model

For the recommendation model ("ML_Recommendation_System.py") the goal is to
recommend to the user 3 charities that best fit to a specific query sentence
like "Helping animals in a forest". For that we also use Spacy and a
pre-computed model from en_core_web_lg. Again the data was cleaned first with
the following steps:

-   Remove non-alphanumeric character/ punctuation

-   Remove the too long and too short sentences

-   Remove stopwords

-   Lemmatize

-   Tokenize

This Cleaning Process results in two new columns named "clean_description" and
"tok_lem_description".

After that we used a pre-trained model and applied it to the descriptions,
retrieved the embedded vectors as matrices and predicted the 3 best matching
charities with the model.

#### Connect Data with Frontend

To connect the data with the frontend of our app we decided to use Firebase.
Therefore with the help of our mentor we prepared the data and imported it (see
import_data_to_firebase.py). For the app we used the data of Charity Navigator
as it offers better usability for our purpose. To further improve the project
from DS point of view the integration of the data in the app should have been
connected earlier and better. In the beginning we discussed possible use of data
to integrate to the app but throughout the project didn't focus on implementing
Machine Learning or Data Analytics results in the app yet due to a lack of time.

## ![](media/90136e37735637d5e12e65cabd6db31c.jpg)

#### Libraries used

-   Pandas

-   Numpy

-   Seaborn

-   Matplotlib

-   NLTK

-   Spacy

-   SciKit Learn

### (Not) The end

Every time the whole Giving team did a Jour Fixe to share their
accomplishment/difficulties every week, it was clear to see that almost all of
us were very frustrated, being hindered by our lack of knowledge in order to
build anything for this app (all of our JF are documented in our Notion page so
everyone can see our progress). Also, the fact that almost all in our team are
working full time had limited the time we have to build this app. The team also
helped each other, especially with GitHub issues. Some of our team members are
not very well-versed in Git/GitHub and our developers were always ready to help.
Furthermore, we are also very grateful that our Mentor, Renan Bandeira, was
always available to help us. He didn’t micromanage us and offered his help
whenever asked. His technical knowledge and insights are such a great help, and
his support to our DS and WD teams was very much appreciated.

We at Giving always emphasized the importance of communication. Our Slack
channel is always very active, team members per track are always talking to each
other, and we had JF every week which we documented so any absent member can see
what we have discussed in that Jour Fixe. Unfortunately, the WD team had a
hiccup where the back-end developer went to another country/continent in the
middle of the project phase and had very little time to work on her task. This
ended up being a big hurdle towards the end of the project, where the web
developers realized that the back-end is incomplete, therefore we wouldn’t be
able to interact with the app in React and wouldn’t be able to show a live demo
in our Final Presentation.

We decided that this should not stop us from showing what we are capable of. The
UX team completed the whole design of the app and produced a prototype video
that we played in the Final Presentation session to show how the app should look
like meanwhile, the developers were still fixing their coding. This hurdle
surely disappointed everyone, but looking back, what we have accomplished is no
small feat and we are proud to see what we have achieved so far.

We started this phase with confusion and uncertainty. Nurturing a small idea and
slowly raising it into a solid prototype that shows our hard work and a
culmination of our commitments. We did manage to build Giving into what we
wanted it to be, even though it won’t be possible for us to build it into
something real and usable in real life because of legalities (complex
bureaucracy and complicated law regarding donation esp. donating to foreign
organization, etc.), but it can be a starting point. This project bonded all the
team members and once we have delivered the final presentation, we have built a
solid friendship that hopefully will go a long way.

### 

### Behind Giving

![](media/da12b1314c2e8bd473912f0e115c337c.png)

-   UX: Zahra Nasrollahi  
    [Portfolio](https://www.zahraportfolio.com)

-   UX: Beppy Khafilana  
    [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/beppy-khafilana/)

-   DS:Mariane Naujokat  
    [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/mariane-naujokat-3b767a103/)

-   DS: Paulina Figueroa  
    [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/paulina-figueroa-10450010a)

-   WD: Juliane von Hagen  
    [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/juliane-von-hagen/)  
    [Blog](http://psychologenrunde.de)

-   WD: Audrey Biasucci  
    [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/audreybiasucci)

-   WD: Graciana La Menza

![](media/0d57e75899cff45e4efa2aa1f855c346.png)

## Project Summary:

Why do(n’t) people donate?

According to the
<https://kbfus.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/10/2020-Global-Trends-in-Giving-Report.pdf>[**2020
Global Trends in Giving
Report**](https://kbfus.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/10/2020-Global-Trends-in-Giving-Report.pdf),
1.817 non-donors responded that they had not given to charity within the last 12
months. From all of these non-donors, 42% responded that they do not donate
because they do not have the financial resources, 9% responded that they don’t
trust organisations to spend their money well, and 2% don’t believe that
organisations make a positive difference.

Plenty of world issues that NGOs and NPOs trying to combat are structural
problems, which will require structural change and approach from many sides.
Donation won’t be the sole solution for all issues. However, funding would be an
immense help for nonprofits to keep on helping and tackling important issues in
the society. One also does not need to donate a large sum of money to an
organization in order to make a change. We believe that when people come
together and provide help, no matter how small, it can make a big impact.
Therefore, we created a Giving app with the hope that this platform can help
convert non-donors into donors and help donors to donate to charitable
organisations in an easy and efficient way.

This project was created during TechLab Berlin’s Digital Shaper Program winter
semester 2021/2022, where 7 women from UX, Web Development, and Data Science
tracks all worked together in just 7 weeks to build the app from scratch. Our
utmost goal is to get people who use our app to donate with just several clicks
to different organisations while getting the complete information about the
organization itself. With providing our users with organizations vetted by DZI
and Charity Navigator, we can assure the users that all the organizations are
trustable, transparent, and committed to the cause.
