## Project Summary:

Why do(n’t) people donate?

According to the
<https://kbfus.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/10/2020-Global-Trends-in-Giving-Report.pdf>[**2020
Global Trends in Giving
Report**](https://kbfus.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/10/2020-Global-Trends-in-Giving-Report.pdf),
1.817 non-donors responded that they had not given to charity within the last 12
months. From all of these non-donors, 42% responded that they do not donate
because they do not have the financial resources, 9% responded that they don’t
trust organisations to spend their money well, and 2% don’t believe that
organisations make a positive difference.

Plenty of world issues that NGOs and NPOs trying to combat are structural
problems, which will require structural change and approach from many sides.
Donation won’t be the sole solution for all issues. However, funding would be an
immense help for nonprofits to keep on helping and tackling important issues in
the society. One also does not need to donate a large sum of money to an
organization in order to make a change. We believe that when people come
together and provide help, no matter how small, it can make a big impact.
Therefore, we created a Giving app with the hope that this platform can help
convert non-donors into donors and help donors to donate to charitable
organisations in an easy and efficient way.

This project was created during TechLab Berlin’s Digital Shaper Program winter
semester 2021/2022, where 7 women from UX, Web Development, and Data Science
tracks all worked together in just 7 weeks to build the app from scratch. Our
utmost goal is to get people who use our app to donate with just several clicks
to different organisations while getting the complete information about the
organization itself. With providing our users with organizations vetted by DZI
and Charity Navigator, we can assure the users that all the organizations are
trustable, transparent, and committed to the cause.
